# IV-Measurement-of-Solar-Cells-using-Keithley-2460
This repository helps to extract data by performing IV-measurement on both forward and reverse sweeps in a Solar Cell by using Python programming.

Steps in Measuring IV curves using Keitley-2460 SMU:

1. Turn on the power. The device has already been connected to internet via cable. If not, connect it to internet via cable.
2. Open “XXX.XXX.XXX.XXX” (Your Keithley IP Address) in the web browser of a computer.
3. Open a terminal.
4. Save all the python scripts in a folder.
5. Connect the solar cell to be measured in 4-wire setting.
6. Follow the following commands to measure:

python3 -m venv myenv
source myenv/bin/activate
pip install pyvisa_py
pip install pyvisa
pip install typing-extensions
python runScripts.py

7. Closely watch the prompt and the Keithley screen.
8. Once the forward sweep is over, quickly go to the web browser, click extract data, and click “defbuffer1.csv” to download the data from forward sweep.
9. Both username and password to extract data is “admin”. Alternatively, if you don’t want to do steps 8 and 9, you will also see bufferForward.csv and bufferReverse.csv files automatically generated by these python scripts that you can use for the analysis. Same thing goes for step 10.
10. Once the reverse sweep is over, go to the web browser, click extract data, and click “defbuffer2.csv” to download the data from forward sweep.

————————————————————————————————————————————

Explanation of 'SOUR:SWE:VOLT:LIN 0, 2, 101, 0.01, 1, BEST, ON, OFF, "defbuffer1”’:

The syntax of this code line is: :SOUR:SWE:VOLT:LIN <start>, <stop>, <points>, <delay>, <count>,
<rangeType>, <failAbort>, <dual>, "<bufferName>"

1. <start> means the beginning of the voltage sweep.
2. <stop> means the end of the voltage sweep.
3. <points> means the no. of points that you need in the measurement.
4. <delay> introduces the total delay between each successive measurement in seconds.
5. <count> means the total sweeps to be done. It is generally 1.
6. <rangeType> is the types of range of the voltage, viz. BEST, AUTO, and FIX. Usually, BEST works.
7. <failAbort> means do we want to abort the sweep if the source limit is exceeded. ON is preferred.
8. <dual> can provide sweep in the reverse direction as well. We are doing it OFF this time. I have written these codes in the way that we are doing just the one way sweeps.
9. "<bufferName>" filename where the data is stored.




